1) what is reactjs?
A)Reactjs is the JS-Ui library used to build the Ui components by the developers and used to build a user interface.It was deeveloped by facebook and released in 2013.
It allow to build the Ui by declaritely writing JS code. Js code is maintained by react. If any changes happend in the compoents reactjs will take care to rerendering and assigning.

2) WHAT IS DOM?
A) DOM stands fordocuments object model. It is a tree like structure used to represent the structure of elements presnet in the HTML document.

3)Explain the lifecycle methods of components.
getInitialState(): This is executed before the creation of the component.
componentDidMount(): Is executed when the component gets rendered and placed on the DOM.
shouldComponentUpdate(): Is invoked when a component determines changes to the DOM and returns a “true” or “false” value based on certain conditions.
componentDidUpdate(): Is invoked immediately after rendering takes place.
componentWillUnmount(): Is invoked immediately before a component is destroyed and unmounted permanently.

3) WHAT IS REACTDOM?
A)ReactDOM is used to render componets and elements in the web application. It is part of react library used to create the user interface and dynamic web applications and
reusable components that can be used in different applications.

4) Ui without Reactjs?
A)we can build Ui without reactjs but for big size applications it will be more difficulty.We need to write HTMl tags and use the js to add the event handing to wire everything up.

5) How to install Reactjs?
A) 1. Install the Nodejs first.
 2. open VSCODE in the terminal check for node and npm version. node -v and npm -v
 3.intall the react app by : npx create-react-app myfirstapp
4: Open that folder and type: npm start

6) what are components and props?
A) components are the js functions which takes props as arguments and return the JSX.
Components are the building blocks of any React application, and a single app usually consists of multiple components.
A component is essentially a piece of the user interface. It splits the user interface into independent, reusable parts 
that can be processed separately.

2 types of Compoenents
1)Functional Components: These types of components have no state of their own and only contain render methods, and therefore are 
also called stateless components. They may derive data from other components as props (properties).

2)Class Components: These types of components can hold and manage their own state and have a separate render method to return JSX
on the screen. They are also called Stateful components as they can have a state.

7) WHAT IS STATE?
A)A state will be the local state of the component whenever the state is changed the component will rerender the updated JSX.
Inorder to use state we have a hook called useState. 

8)What are the features of React?
A)JSX:  JSX is a syntax extension to JavaScript. It is used with React to describe what the user interface should look like. By using JSX, 
we can write HTML structures in the same file that contains JavaScript code.

Components: Components are the building blocks of any React application, and a single app usually consists of multiple components. 
It splits the user interface into independent, reusable parts that can be processed separately.

Virtual DOM: React keeps a lightweight representation of the real DOM in the memory, and that is known as the virtual DOM. When the 
state of an object changes, virtual DOM changes only that object in the real DOM, rather than updating all the objects.

One-way data-binding: React’s one-way data binding keeps everything modular and fast. 
A unidirectional data flow means that when designing a React app, you often nest child components within parent components.

High performance: React updates only those components that have changed, rather than updating all the components at once. 
This results in much faster web applications.

9)Can web browsers read JSX directly? 
Web browsers cannot read JSX directly. This is because they are built to only read regular JS objects and JSX is not a regular 
JavaScript object.For a web browser to read a JSX file, the file needs to be transformed into a regular JavaScript object. 
For this, we use Babel

10)Why use React instead of other frameworks, like Angular?
A)Easy creation of dynamic applications: React makes it easier to create dynamic web applications because it provides less coding and
provides more functionality, whereas, with JavaScript applications, code tends to get complex very quickly.

Improved performance: React uses virtual DOM, which makes web applications perform faster. Virtual DOM compares its previous state 
and updates only those components in the real DOM, whose states have changed, rather than updating all the components — 
like conventional web applications.

Reusable components: Components are the building blocks of any React application, and a single app usually consists 
of multiple components. These components have their own logic and controls, and they can be reused through the application,
which, in turn, dramatically reduces the development time of an application.

Unidirectional data flow: React follows a unidirectional data flow. This means that when designing a React app, we often
nest child components within parent components. And since the data flows in a single direction, it becomes easier to debug 
errors and know where the problem occurs in an application at the moment.

11)What is an event in React?
A)An event is an action that a user or system may trigger, such as pressing a key, a mouse click, etc.
React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase in HTML. Exaple: onclick, onPress

12)What are synthetic events in React?
A)Synthetic events combine the response of different browser's native events into one API, 
ensuring that the events are consistent across different browsers.
The application is consistent regardless of the browser it is running in. Here, preventDefault is a synthetic event.

13)Eplain how lists work in React?
A)We create lists in React as we do in regular JavaScript. Lists display data in an ordered format.
The traversal of lists is done using the map() function.

14)Why is there a need for using keys in Lists?
A)A key is a unique identifier and it is used to identify which items have changed, 
been updated or deleted from the lists.
It also helps to determine which components need to be re-rendered instead of re-rendering all the components every time. 
Therefore, it increases performance, as only the updated components are re-rendered.

15)What are forms in React?
React employs forms to enable users to interact with web applications.
Using forms, users can interact with the application and enter the required information whenever needed. 
Form contain certain elements, such as text fields, buttons, checkboxes, radio buttons, etc
Forms are used for many different tasks such as user authentication, searching, filtering, indexing, etc

16)  What is an arrow function and how is it used in React?
A)An arrow function is a short way of writing a function to React.It automatically inheriting the this value from the surrounding context,
which eliminates common this scoping issues in React components.

17) What is the use of render() in React?
A)It is required for each component to have a render() function. This function returns the HTML, which is to be 
displayed in the component.If you need to render more than one element, all of the elements must be inside one parent tag like 
<div>, <form>.

18)What is a state in React?
A)The state is a built-in React object that is used to contain data or information about the component. 
The state in a component can change over time, and whenever it changes, the component re-renders.
The change in state can happen as a response to user action or system-generated events. It determines 
the behavior of the component and how it will render.

19) What are props in React?
A)Props are short for Properties. It is a React built-in object that stores the value of attributes of a tag and 
works similarly to HTML attributes.Props provide a way to pass data from one component to another component. 
Props are passed to the component in the same way as arguments are passed in a function.

20)What is Redux?
A)Redux is an open-source, JavaScript library used to manage the application state. React
uses Redux to build the user interface.  is used for the entire application’s state management.

21)What are the components of Redux?
A)Store: Holds the state of the application.
Action: The source information for the store.
Reducer: Specifies how the application's state changes in response to actions sent to the store.

22)What is the Flux?
A)Flux is the application architecture that Facebook uses for building web applications. 
It is a method of handling complex data inside a client-side application and manages how data flows in a React application.

23)What is React Router?
A)React Router is a routing library built on top of React, which is used to create routes in a React application.
It maintains consistent structure and behavior and is used to develop single-page web applications. 
Enables multiple views in a single application by defining multiple routes in the React application.

24)es5 and es6
A) es6: introduced two ways of declaring variables let and constant.
2:arraw function was used in es6
3:ES6 introduced classes, which provide a more structured and object-oriented approach to building components

es5: it used var
2: React components were often defined using ES5 constructor functions.

experience
I was working on risk arrgreation tool where leadship can monitor schedule jobs .
grapghs: chartjs
ui: reactjs-version 17 (there are not)
backend: springboot 3, java-10

jest.js- for testing we use jest.js- which has expect

cucumber- its a bridge bewteen developers and business people. its a bheviour driven development. which has scnerio, given, ,when,then.

webdrivenio: helps to run test sceniors in the browser.

Dockers:Docker is a software platform that allows you to build, test, and deploy applications quickly. It is a tool that 
is used to  deploy, and run apps by using containers. Developers make use of docker containers to package applications using libraries and other dependencies.

Kuberneties:it is used to manage the cluster. cluster contains multple racks nad racks have multiple servers. 'Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployment, scaling, and management. 
includes built-in commands for deploying applications, rolling out changes to your applications, scaling your applications up and down to fit changing needs, 
monitoring your applications, and more—making it easier to manage applications.

